---
title: Climate Claims Assignment
layout: default
nav_order: 1
---
I chose the essay by Kip Hansen (Hansen, 2018) on global greening as my first option because it addressed a major issue between climate change believers and deniers in terms of interpretation. While the other articles focused on specific issues such as modelling and observation discrepancies, this one addressed an entire concept that is seemingly hidden by the believers and manipulated by the deniers. The idea that climate change could yield a beneficial short-term effect is confusing and volatile when presented to a highly polarized audience. 

The essay itself is extremely biased, and comes out in Hansen’s need to interject casual statements to retort the claims by the authors of other articles. These also lead to gross simplifications and manipulations to lead the reader to the desired outcome, with convoluted statements such as “…when Global Greening was Good News, it was also Good News for the Bad Guys.  And you know what that means…all right thinking ‘good guys’ (those in the Climate Alarm business) now have to make sure that the Good News is really Bad News so that the general public won’t listen to those Bad Guys”. I should say that the I did not actually find the essay itself compelling, but instead the papers that the presented articles referenced. The main article is Zimmer (2017), which covers the research by Campbell et al. (2017) in Nature. The conclusion that both Hansen and Zimmer state is that increases in atmospheric CO2 have caused an increase of plant growth by 31% throughout the twentieth century. What is interesting is that Campbell et al. actually use carbonyl sulfide (COS) to show correlation to the carbon cycle, and are hesitant to state that their work has direct correlation to CO2 levels. Nevertheless, their work confirms the occurrence of global greening, with the remainder of the essay commending the benefits it provides and horribly dismissing the alternative takes through a series of ad hominem and strawman arguments, such as “…but Zimmer has been caught out on the wrong side of the Climate Wars…and makes a fool of himself in doing so” and “This argument is rather like saying exercise will improve your health now but it will not prevent your eventual aging  — therefore, Exercise is Terrible!”.

As previously stated, it was not Hansen’s script that intrigued me, but instead the confidence that he bolstered in proving that increased emissions was beneficial (to the point of saying “it is not terrible – it is wonderful”). This led me to wonder how much truth global greening held, and if it is a phenomenon worthy of discussion. Contrary to my initial statements, global greening is not a “hidden” topic, with research confirming carbon dioxide fertilization in various scientific journals and reports (Piao et al., 2020; Zhou et al., 2001; Nemani et al., 2003), and many more discussing related implications (De Jong et al., 2013; Liu et al., 2015, 2016; Pan et al., 2018). When it comes to its reporting in mainstream media however, the presented interpretation is split in two. Conventional articles state that this sequestering is an interesting and mildly ironic outcome to climate change, with few acknowledging possible complex outcomes in the future (Reiny, 2016; Boston University, 2020; Mulhern, 2020; Chen and Myneni, 2019). For the articles written for such sites used in this assignment, the conclusions can be found to be tame (Rotter, 2020a; b), yet quickly erupt into cries of deliverance and proof of the hypocrisy and falsehoods spewing from the climate “alarmists” (Watts, 2019; Ridley, 2016).

For now I am certain that global greening is occurring, and in most cases is happening exactly as many of the extremists state. However, my variance comes in the interpretation and consequences it will bring. This is not proof for the dismissal of climate change or global warming, nor are they even pitted against each other. Instead, this confirms the vast intricacies of our global ecosystem, and the need to let go of short-term conclusions in order to competently prepare for what is yet to come.

Article link: https://wattsupwiththat.com/2018/08/14/the-fight-against-global-greening-part-1/
